A few videos back I mentioned that the
way we're adding loop to the inventory
wasn't a good idea and in this video
we're gonna look at why that isn't a
good idea and what we could do about it
we're gonna start there by deleting the
code that we used for for loops and
uncommenting our player code, I'm just
going to delete the for loop code I'm
just going to select like delete the
rest of it first and select the rest of
the clay that was commented out I think
if we come up to the code menu and I can
click on comment with flying comment
which undoes the changes if it was
already coming to that and obviously
these other things that were commented
out were things that we've commented out
previously in case somebody where
they're still sitting there and
commented out okay let's just run the
program to make sure that it works okay
let's say that we've got our code
working again everything's working
nicely so getting back to the problem at hand
why isn't it a good idea for our main
function to a dilute to Tim's imagery in
this fashion that it's doing here well
there's a couple of reasons why it's not
a good idea
one reason is that main shouldn't have
to know that the players are using an
ArrayList to store the loot so looking
at our player class we've declared
inventory to be an ArrayList now we may
decide to change that in the future to
use some other kind of structure now if
we do that we might break the code in
main our main function is expecting an
ArrayList with an add method that it can
use if we use something else maybe a
structure that has an append function
instead of add then the code in main
will stop working now what are the
principles of object-oriented
programming is encapsulation so
capsulation here basically means not
exposing the inner workings of a class
to code outside of that class now
Cortland takes a more relaxed attitude
or approach to encapsulating class
properties everything's public by
default now that's where the main
function can directly access inventory
now if we want to encapsulate our
inventory we can mark it as private so
come up here to the deck
additional online seven and top private
ahead of the available tree and now
nothing outside of the player class can
access the inventory now by default
continent makes properties and functions
public which means that they're
available to external code anything that
creates an instance of our player class
for example could access all its
properties and functions now you can
find the documentation of visibility
modifiers in Kotlin and it just kind of
put the link bring the blink up into a
browser have a quick look at that
now I'm not actually going to go through
this document it can be quite confusing
at the moment but it's worth bookmarking
this page for reference later when you
find some code that uses the internal
modifier for example you can check back
here to find out what that means
so it's crawling that quickly we'll get
to the classes and interfaces section
you see there's a description of the
private modifier up here it's visible it
means visible inside the class only
including all its members so by marking
the inventory property is private it's
now no longer available to any code
outside of the player class now of
course that should mean that we've now
broken bone so if I switch back to that
now you can see we've got some errors
showing so every time main tries to
access a plays inventory Android studio
is showing an error now that's not good
but it's ok to get errors while you're
still developing your classes that's
normal as you try things out and modify
your design what's not good though is
modifying a class once it's been used
and breaking all the code that uses it
so that's one of the things we're trying
to avoid here now if we don't want made
or any other client code of our player
class to access the inventory directly
and we need to provide a method for
clients to call when they need to add
things to the inventory so I'm going to
call that little function get loot and
that reflects what's happening when
loots added to a player's inventory so
let's go ahead and do that back to the
player class we're going to add that
below the two string function and again
what we're doing is we're creating a
function for clients to call when they
need to add things to the inventory and
we'll start with fun space kept loot
parentheses item call and loot
it's mr. white curly braces it's gonna
be inventory dot add item so now that
we've done that we can go back to our
main and we can change money to use the
get loot function instead of accessing
the inventory directly so to do that we
type our we select it you type Tim dot
get to loot those two changes there and
then for the second one do something
similar and loot get loot right there
are parentheses there to keep everything
consistent and working okay we've now
changed it so that the main functions no
longer accessing inventory directly
rather it's doing it via the get loot
function let's just run the program to
make sure everything works as it did before
and you can see we've still got the same
results when we runner but now though
Maine doesn't know how the player
classes during the lute so it can call
they get lute function passing in a
piece of loot and leave the details of
how to store it to the player class so
our inventory is now encapsulated and
isn't available to any code outside of
the player class now another reason for
encapsulating data like this is so let's
say we want to store the inventory to
disk whenever it changes that way when I
come to play the game again my inventory
can be loaded back up and I'll still
have all my loot now before we
encapsulate of the inventory we'd have
to add code to store it each time we
added new loot now that's something that
we could forget to do which wouldn't
make our players very happy so we could
introduce a bug into our code quite
easily but now though we just need to
add the code to save Limu tree in the
get loot function in other words to go
back down to the player class and here
go to save even tree so here they're not
going to add the code to store the
inventory but you can see how we only
have to put this code in a single place
now whenever a new piece of loot gets
added the inventory could be saved to
disk and it always be up-to-date and
there's no chance of us forgetting to
save it in Maine so that's another
reason why our previous approach wasn't
a good idea okay so if we go to prevent
external code from accessing the
inventory we should also provide a way
to remove items from our loot so let's
go ahead and write another function here
I'm going to call this one drop loot
it's slightly more complex in get loot
because we need to make sure that we've
got the item before trying to drop it so
let's start with the definition
I'm droplet parenthesis item :
loot : brilliant then we're there code
block then credit in return if
inventory dot contains item close-up
fruit the season another code block
inventory dot remove item true
the next line else false so I've used if
as an expression there which we covered
earlier in this tutorial section now if
the item of elude exists in the
inventory we remove it and return true
now if it didn't exist we'll return
false so that's letting the calling code
know that if the item was successfully
removed or not so let's see how that
works in Maine we're going to lay new
route down to the end here after the
last show inventory let's try and drop
the red potion so your foot if
parentheses Tim dot drop loot it's going
to be red potion in a code block Tim dot
show inventory so let's run the program
and we should find that the red persons
were moved from the inventory
they can see we've got our first
printout of Tim's inventory the red
patient was there then after the call to
the drop loot the second time in the
second block of code here second block
about put the red potion is no longer
there now we should also test what
happens if an item can't be removed so
I'm going to create a new piece of loot
and try to remove it from Tim's
inventory let's go ahead and do that and
let's also change this to put an else in
here else code block and it'll be
Fruitland you don't have a dollar sign
let's write clear braces good person
don't know so pretty something else is
not there but let's go ahead and create
this other item as I mentioned the Val
blue potion is equal to loot
print the seas double quote blue potion
ending double quote glute tight top
potion and we'll say the bellies six I'm
gonna try during a drop even though we
haven't got it in the inventory so if
Tim dot drop loot blue potion team got
so inventory else a codebook again is
gonna be print loan you don't have pulse
on that's right curly braces blue potion dot okay
alright so let's try reading that I want
I should probably do to avoid some
confusion to just delete that last line
there so let's just try running it again
you can see this time we've got the
message you don't have blue potion so
that's working well our players can now
pick up loot and drop it again but what
about something like the invisibility
potion though you can see that the way
we've defined it we haven't actually got
a reference to it in Maine so we can't
call the droplet function to drop it so
the problem is that we probably
shouldn't have called get loot the way
we did for the ring of protection and
visibility potion on lines 41 and 42
here so this is what I meant earlier
when I said that we need to consider who
should own the objects you know both
those objects really belonged to the
game we should really have created
variables to hold a reference to them in
Maine so that so we've got a way to drop
them the way we've got our code
currently there's no way to reference it
there's no reference to either of those
bits of loot so we've got no way to get
team to drop them now that's the sort of
thing you need to be aware of when
designing your programs after coding for
a while you'll make the correct decision
first time most of the time now you
still make mistakes occasionally of
course just like I did there with those
two items
let's find it's all part of the learning
process but of course in a real game
would probably give the players a way to
go through their inventory and choose
items to drop so in that case we
wouldn't have this problem so when our
code mains in charge of controlling
everything the way to fix this then is
to change main, so that we've got
references to the ring and the potion
but I'm not going to do that because
this gives us a good excuse to look at
overloading a function and we'll do that
in the next video.